school_projects.markdown, before:

---
layout: "page"
title: School Projects
permalink: "/SchoolProjects/"
---

# Projects at Lehigh University
This page serves as a place holder for adding projects that I have completed or worked on during my time at Lehigh university.

### Newton-Raphson Iteration Root Finder Art 
#### Fall 2020 
As a project in my Numerical Methods in Engineering course, we were tasked with creating fractal art using the Newton-Raphson root finding technique. We programmed the method in Matlab, and chose a higher-order polynomial in order to produce the interesting root behavior that we wanted to capture. 

Newton Raphson iterative method:
`x(n+1) = x_n - f(x_n)/f'(x_n)`

Function in Matlab:
```matlab
function[x0,n,fx] = fractals_1(f,fprime,x0)
    %maximum iterations
    nmax = 1000;
    %convergence control
    delta = 0.5*10^-6;
    %allowable error threshold
    epsilon = 0.5*10^-6;
    %initial value of function
    fx = f(x0);
    
    for n = 1:nmax    
        %counts which iteration we are on
        n = (n-1)+1;
        %Solves the derivative at the guess point
        fp = fprime(x0);
       
        if abs(fp) < delta 
           display('Small derivative')
        end
        
        %f(x)/f'(x), crucial step in NR
        d = fx/fp;
        %finds new guess
        x0 = x0-d;
        %Tells the loop to use the new x0 root guess
        fx = f(x0);
        
        if abs(d) < epsilon         
            %display('Convergence!')  
            %Will return to the invoking function when error limit reached
            return   
        end 
    end 
end
```

The roots that were returned were mapped to the real roots of the higher-order polynomial and were contour-plotted in Matlab (a few interesting results are displayed below): 
![flower](/assets/Images/FlowerRoots.JPG)

![heart](/assets/Images/HeartRoots.JPG)


### Double-Pendulum 
#### Fall 2020
The final for our Numerical Methods in Engineering course was to create a model of a double-pendulum system. We used the lengths of the pendulum arms, the mass of each ball, acceleration due to gravity, and the initial angle of the system as the inputs of an IVP (initial value problem) composed of the equations of motion for the pendulums (angular position and velocity etc.). Using the [Runge-Kutta-Fehlberg method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Runge%E2%80%93Kutta%E2%80%93Fehlberg_method), we solved the initial value problem using Matlab and recorded the incremental solutions over time to create an animation of the system. 

Double-pendulum system of equations:
```matlab
% --------------------------------------------------------------------------
% Function Inputs: 
% paramset: array of physical constants for the double pendulum
% t: independent variable (in this case, time)
% y: dependent variable array 

% Function Output: 
% yprime: array defining the system of equations
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
function[yprime] = doublependulum(paramset,t,y) 

l1 = paramset(1);
l2 = paramset(2); 
m1 = paramset(3);
m2 = paramset(4);
g = paramset(5);

%Simplify system of eqns. 
a = (m1+m2)*l1;
b = @(t,x) m2*l2*cos(x(1)-x(3));
c = @(t,x) m2*l1*cos(x(1)-x(3));
d = m2*l2;
e = @(t,x) -m2*l2*(x(4)^2)*sin(x(1)-x(3))-g*(m1+m2)*sin(x(1));
f = @(t,x) m2*l1*(x(2)^2)*sin(x(1)-x(3))-m2*g*sin(x(3));

%System of ODEs:
%x(1) = theta1
%x(2) = theta_dot1
%x(3) = theta2
%x(4) = theta_dot2

yprime = cell(length(y),1);
%The equivalent 1st order ODE Eqn. for: Theta1
yprime{1,1} = @(t,x) x(2);

%Eqv 1st order ODE for Theta_dot1 ((ed)-(bf))/((ad)-(cb)), working on cleaning up
yprime{2,1} = @(t,x) (((-m2*l2*(x(4)^2)*sin(x(1)-x(3))-g*(m1+m2)*sin(x(1)))*...
(d)) - ((m2*l2*cos(x(1)-x(3)))*(m2*l1*(x(2)^2)*sin(x(1)-x(3))-m2*g*sin(x(3)))))/...
(((a)*(d)) - ((m2*l1*cos(x(1)-x(3)))*(m2*l2*cos(x(1)-x(3)))));
 
%Eqv 1st order ODE for Theta2
yprime{3,1} = @(t,x) x(4);

%Eqv 1st order ODE for Theta_dot2 (af-ce)/(ad-cb), working on cleaning up
yprime{4,1} = @(t,x) (((a)*(m2*l1*(x(2)^2)*sin(x(1)-x(3))-m2*g*sin(x(3))))-...
    ((m2*l1*cos(x(1)-x(3)))*(-m2*l2*(x(4)^2)*sin(x(1)-x(3))-g*(m1+m2)*sin(x(1)))))/...
    (((a)*(d)) - ((m2*l1*cos(x(1)-x(3)))*(m2*l2*cos(x(1)-x(3)))));
end
```

RK-45 snippet (constants c20, c30 etc. not shown for brevity, code widely available online):
```matlab
for j = 1:length(yprime)
    %From widely available pseudocode adapted for ODE system
    K1(1,j) = h*yprime{j}(t,x);
    K2(1,j) = h*yprime{j}(t+c20*h,x+c21*K1(1,j));
    K3(1,j) = h*yprime{j}(t+c30*h,x+c31*K1(1,j)+c32*K2(1,j));
    K4(1,j) = h*yprime{j}(t+c40*h,x+c41*K1(1,j)+c42*K2(1,j)+c43*K3(1,j));
    K5(1,j) = h*yprime{j}(t+h,x+c51*K1(1,j)+c52*K2(1,j)+c53*K3(1,j)+c54*K4(1,j));
    K6(1,j) = h*yprime{j}(t+c60*h,x+c61*K1(1,j)+c62*K2(1,j)+c63*K3(1,j)+c64*K4(1,j)+c65*K5(1,j));
end

% weighted averages
x4= x + a1*K1 + a3*K3 + a4*K4 + a5*K5;
x = x + b1*K1 + b3*K3 + b4*K4 + b5*K5 + b6*K6;

%iterates the time step
t = t + h;

%calculates the error value to compare in adaptive time step
epsilon = abs(x-x4);

%assuming worst case w/max to send back to the variable time stepper
epsilon = max(epsilon);
```

The final result:

<img src="/assets/Video/Double_PendulumVid.gif" width="500" height="auto"/>

### Balsawood Wing Design
#### Fall 2021
< insert blurb about MECH 450 class here > 


### Nonlinear Cable Problem MATLAB Script
#### Fall 2021
< insert blurb about MECH 450 final project here >

Commit message:

more details on wing design proj

school_projects.markdown, after:

---
layout: "page"
title: School Projects
permalink: "/SchoolProjects/"
---

# Projects at Lehigh University
This page serves as a place holder for adding projects that I have completed or worked on during my time at Lehigh university.

### Newton-Raphson Iteration Root Finder Art 
#### Fall 2020 
As a project in my Numerical Methods in Engineering course, we were tasked with creating fractal art using the Newton-Raphson root finding technique. We programmed the method in Matlab, and chose a higher-order polynomial in order to produce the interesting root behavior that we wanted to capture. 

Newton Raphson iterative method:
`x(n+1) = x_n - f(x_n)/f'(x_n)`

Function in Matlab:
```matlab
function[x0,n,fx] = fractals_1(f,fprime,x0)
    %maximum iterations
    nmax = 1000;
    %convergence control
    delta = 0.5*10^-6;
    %allowable error threshold
    epsilon = 0.5*10^-6;
    %initial value of function
    fx = f(x0);
    
    for n = 1:nmax    
        %counts which iteration we are on
        n = (n-1)+1;
        %Solves the derivative at the guess point
        fp = fprime(x0);
       
        if abs(fp) < delta 
           display('Small derivative')
        end
        
        %f(x)/f'(x), crucial step in NR
        d = fx/fp;
        %finds new guess
        x0 = x0-d;
        %Tells the loop to use the new x0 root guess
        fx = f(x0);
        
        if abs(d) < epsilon         
            %display('Convergence!')  
            %Will return to the invoking function when error limit reached
            return   
        end 
    end 
end
```

The roots that were returned were mapped to the real roots of the higher-order polynomial and were contour-plotted in Matlab (a few interesting results are displayed below): 

<img src="/assets/Images/FlowerRoots.JPG" width="500" height="auto"/>

<img src="/assets/Images/HeartRoots.JPG" width="500" height="auto"/>


### Double-Pendulum 
#### Fall 2020
The final for our Numerical Methods in Engineering course was to create a model of a double-pendulum system. We used the lengths of the pendulum arms, the mass of each ball, acceleration due to gravity, and the initial angle of the system as the inputs of an IVP (initial value problem) composed of the equations of motion for the pendulums (angular position and velocity etc.). Using the [Runge-Kutta-Fehlberg method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Runge%E2%80%93Kutta%E2%80%93Fehlberg_method), we solved the initial value problem using Matlab and recorded the incremental solutions over time to create an animation of the system. 

Double-pendulum system of equations:
```matlab
% --------------------------------------------------------------------------
% Function Inputs: 
% paramset: array of physical constants for the double pendulum
% t: independent variable (in this case, time)
% y: dependent variable array 

% Function Output: 
% yprime: array defining the system of equations
% -------------------------------------------------------------------------
function[yprime] = doublependulum(paramset,t,y) 

l1 = paramset(1);
l2 = paramset(2); 
m1 = paramset(3);
m2 = paramset(4);
g = paramset(5);

%Simplify system of eqns. 
a = (m1+m2)*l1;
b = @(t,x) m2*l2*cos(x(1)-x(3));
c = @(t,x) m2*l1*cos(x(1)-x(3));
d = m2*l2;
e = @(t,x) -m2*l2*(x(4)^2)*sin(x(1)-x(3))-g*(m1+m2)*sin(x(1));
f = @(t,x) m2*l1*(x(2)^2)*sin(x(1)-x(3))-m2*g*sin(x(3));

%System of ODEs:
%x(1) = theta1
%x(2) = theta_dot1
%x(3) = theta2
%x(4) = theta_dot2

yprime = cell(length(y),1);
%The equivalent 1st order ODE Eqn. for: Theta1
yprime{1,1} = @(t,x) x(2);

%Eqv 1st order ODE for Theta_dot1 ((ed)-(bf))/((ad)-(cb)), working on cleaning up
yprime{2,1} = @(t,x) (((-m2*l2*(x(4)^2)*sin(x(1)-x(3))-g*(m1+m2)*sin(x(1)))*...
(d)) - ((m2*l2*cos(x(1)-x(3)))*(m2*l1*(x(2)^2)*sin(x(1)-x(3))-m2*g*sin(x(3)))))/...
(((a)*(d)) - ((m2*l1*cos(x(1)-x(3)))*(m2*l2*cos(x(1)-x(3)))));
 
%Eqv 1st order ODE for Theta2
yprime{3,1} = @(t,x) x(4);

%Eqv 1st order ODE for Theta_dot2 (af-ce)/(ad-cb), working on cleaning up
yprime{4,1} = @(t,x) (((a)*(m2*l1*(x(2)^2)*sin(x(1)-x(3))-m2*g*sin(x(3))))-...
    ((m2*l1*cos(x(1)-x(3)))*(-m2*l2*(x(4)^2)*sin(x(1)-x(3))-g*(m1+m2)*sin(x(1)))))/...
    (((a)*(d)) - ((m2*l1*cos(x(1)-x(3)))*(m2*l2*cos(x(1)-x(3)))));
end
```

RK-45 snippet (constants c20, c30 etc. not shown for brevity, code widely available online):
```matlab
for j = 1:length(yprime)
    %From widely available pseudocode adapted for ODE system
    K1(1,j) = h*yprime{j}(t,x);
    K2(1,j) = h*yprime{j}(t+c20*h,x+c21*K1(1,j));
    K3(1,j) = h*yprime{j}(t+c30*h,x+c31*K1(1,j)+c32*K2(1,j));
    K4(1,j) = h*yprime{j}(t+c40*h,x+c41*K1(1,j)+c42*K2(1,j)+c43*K3(1,j));
    K5(1,j) = h*yprime{j}(t+h,x+c51*K1(1,j)+c52*K2(1,j)+c53*K3(1,j)+c54*K4(1,j));
    K6(1,j) = h*yprime{j}(t+c60*h,x+c61*K1(1,j)+c62*K2(1,j)+c63*K3(1,j)+c64*K4(1,j)+c65*K5(1,j));
end

% weighted averages
x4= x + a1*K1 + a3*K3 + a4*K4 + a5*K5;
x = x + b1*K1 + b3*K3 + b4*K4 + b5*K5 + b6*K6;

%iterates the time step
t = t + h;

%calculates the error value to compare in adaptive time step
epsilon = abs(x-x4);

%assuming worst case w/max to send back to the variable time stepper
epsilon = max(epsilon);
```

The final result:

<img src="/assets/Video/Double_PendulumVid.gif" width="500" height="auto"/>

### Balsawood Wing Design
#### Fall 2021
This Fall I took a class in Advanced Strength of Materials. Throughout the course we learned about calculating principle stresses and strains and transforming them in 2D & 3D, Castigliano's Energy method for solving statically indeterminate beam problems, shear flow in multi-cell thing wall beams, calculating shear centers, and more. 
The final project for the class involved designing and building a swept-forward balsawood airfoil. First, we did a number of finite element simulations in ANSYS mechanical to numerically estimate the shear center of the airfoil. [Swept-forward wings](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forward-swept_wing) have maneuverability advantages but are more susceptible to torsional divergence (wings twisting off) which is why they are uncommon, and why knowing the shear center is important. 

![cad_wing](/assets/Images/wing_cad.png) 

![cad_wing_deformed](/assets/Images/wing_cad_deformed.png)

After designing our wing and running the simulations, I exported the airfoil cross section as a DXF and laser-cut the pieces in Lehigh's maker lab. We constructed our airfoil using 50/50 epoxy, balsawood spars, and Monokote heat-shrink.

<img src="/assets/Images/constructedwing.JPG" width="500" height="auto"/>

After the epoxy cured, it was time for the competition day. Our wing design came in second place out of 10 teams based on strength to weight ratio (our stats: weight = 28.45 grams, speed = 81.17 mph). Watch our wing meet it's match in the wind tunnel below!

<img src="/assets/Video/wind_tunnel.gif" width="500" height="auto"/>

### Nonlinear Cable Problem MATLAB Script
#### Fall 2021
< insert blurb about MECH 450 final project here >
