---
title:  "Raspberry Pi Exploration"
date:   2021-11-01 15:33:33 -0500
permalink: "/Raspi/"
image: assets/Images/raspi.png
---

# Raspberry Pi Projects
For my birthday, I got a [Raspberry Pi model 3B+](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-3-model-b-plus/). This little computer came complete with built-in wifi reciever, bluetooth, HDMI, and plenty of usb connections. The majority of the side projects that I am interested in involve some combination of hardware and software, and the Pi was the perfect tool for the job. 

### Raspotify
The primary reason I needed the Raspberry Pi was to fulfill a project idea that I had been pondering for a few months at this point. I generally enjoy listening to music while I work, whether it be through my headphones or my record player. In my work-from-home setup, my laptop is connected to two monitors at my desk. My [Sterling Audio MX8](https://sterlingaudio.net/sterling-mx8-studio-monitors/) studio monitors, which can play music from my laptop, are set up on the opposite side of the room on a different desk. There was no way for me to listen to music from my fancy speakers and work from home at the same time! 

Luckily, this was where the Raspberry Pi came in. My audio setup consists of a [Focusrite Scarlett 2i2](https://focusrite.com/en/usb-audio-interface/scarlett/scarlett-2i2) audio interface which takes USB audio input from a laptop (or from musical instruments connected to the 1/4" ports) and sends the signal to the stereo MX8 monitors. I could use a laptop in place of a Raspberry Pi to send the audio signal. Thanks to dtcooper and his awesome GitHub repository [Raspotify](https://github.com/dtcooper/raspotify) I just needed to configure the settings on my Raspberry Pi correctly and implement his open source Spotify client for Raspberry Pi! 

I am running Noobs on Raspberry Pi which is a Debian-based Linux operating system. Linux uses alsa to handle audio (Advanced Linux Sound Architecture). I configured the alsa.config file to use Scarlett 2i2 as the defualt audio sound card.

*Note to self - input code snippet when focusrite is connected- below is just a placeholder*
```
aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: b1 [bcm2835 HDMI 1], device 0: bcm2835 HDMI 1 [bcm2835 HDMI 1]
  Subdevices: 4/4
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
  Subdevice #1: subdevice #1
  Subdevice #2: subdevice #2
  Subdevice #3: subdevice #3
card 1: Headphones [bcm2835 Headphones], device 0: bcm2835 Headphones [bcm2835 Headphones]
  Subdevices: 4/4
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
  Subdevice #1: subdevice #1
  Subdevice #2: subdevice #2
  Subdevice #3: subdevice #3
  ```
  
I changed these two lines in /usr/share/alsa/alsa.conf to set the interface to default: 
  ```
defaults.ctl.card 2
defaults.pcm.card 2
```

Now, I can use Spotify on my phone to connect with the Raspberry Pi over Bluetooth to play music over my speakers any time I want!


### Ultrasonic Theramin Project
I was intersted in what else the Raspberry Pi could do. After some searching on their website, I found a cool project for making an [ultrasonic theramin](https://projects.raspberrypi.org/en/projects/ultrasonic-theremin/7). I quickly realized this did not hold much musical potential, so I decided to make it better. More details on this project [here](https://bji219.github.io/UltrasonicSynth/)!
